hearing now from the UN Secretary
General Antonio guz a decisive moment
for the Palestinian and Israeli people
and for the fate of the entire
region an agreement between the
government of Israel and the leadership
of Hamas is essential to stop the
unbearable suffering of Palestinians in
Gaza and of the hostages and their
families it would be tragic if weeks of
intense diplomatic activity for peace in
Gaza yielded no ceasefire no release of
hostages and a devastating offensive in
Rafa I reiterate my appeal for both
parties to show the political courage
and spare no effort to secure an
agreement now to stop the Bloodshed to
free the hostages and to help stabilize
a region which is still at risk of
explosion this is a crucial opportunity
that the region and in need the world
cannot afford to
miss yet things are moving in the wrong
direction I'm disturbed and distressed
by the renewed military activity in Rafa
by the Israeli Defense
Forces the closure of both Rafa and Kem
Shalom Crossings is especially damaging
to an already dire humanitarian
situation they must be reopened
immediately just to give an example we
risk running out of fuel this
evening I urge the government of Israel
to stop any escalation and engage
constructively in the ongoing diplomatic
talks after more than 1,100 Israelis
killed in the Hamas Terror attacks of 7
October after more than 34,000
Palestinians killed in Gaza haven't we
seen enough haven't civilians suffered
enough death and destruction
make no mistake a fullscale assault on
Rafa would be a human
catastrophe countless more civilian
casualties countless more families
forced to flee yet again with nowhere
safe to go because there is no safe
place in Gaza meanwhile the
repercussions will be felt far beyond in
the occupied West Bank and across the
region Rafa is the epicenter of
humanitarian operations in Gaza
attacking grafa will further append our
efforts to support people in dire
humanitarian Straits as famine
looms International humanitarian law is
unequivocal civilians must be protected
whether they live Rafa or stay in the
city international humanitarian law must
be respected by both
parties they also remind Israel of its
obligation to facilitate the safe and
unimpeded access of humanitarian Aid and
stuff into and across
Gaza even the best friends of Israel are
clear an assault on Rafa would be a
strategic mistake a political Calamity
and a humanitarian
nightmare I appeal to all those with
influence over Israel to do everything
in their power to help avert even more
tragedy the International Community has
a shared responsibility to promote a
humanitarian SE fire the unconditional
release of the all all hostages and the
massive surge in life saving
Aid it's time for the parties to seize
the opportunity and secure a deal for
the sake of their own people thank you
thank
you right so we've just been hearing
from un Secretary General Antonio guaris
making a few remarks uh after we see an
Israeli assault an assault by Israeli
forces on Rafa of course the Rafa border
crossing is located on the Egypt Gaza
border it's the only Crossing with Gaza
that is not controlled by Israel and it
has been subject to an agreement with
Israel that Egypt has controlled this
Crossing since 2007 um but supplies
entering Gaza through Rafa require
Israeli approval and and really the
remarks we just heard from the Secretary
General is really aimed at uh pressure
ing all sides but particularly
emphasizing that there could be
humanitarian catastrophe if uh if the
aid is blocked into the Gaza Strip he
mentioned that this is a population that
is now facing famine attacking Rafa uh
would essentially uh prevent the
delivery of supplies into the strip he
reminded Israel of its obligation not to
block the delivery of Aid he also called
on Israel to engage constructively in
negotiations for ceasefire emphasizing
that an assault on Rafa would result in
humanitarian catastrophe for 1 and a
half million people who were there and
some 600,000
children make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz